Breaking news we're following right now.
The Pentagon now says U.S.
forces have carried out an airstrike
against a weapons
facility in Syria linked to
various groups backed by Iran.
CNN's Jeremy Diamond is joining us
from Tel Aviv, Israel, right now.
He's got the latest.
What are you learning, Jeremy?
Yeah, that's right, Wolf.
Two U.S.
F-15 striking a weapons
storage facility in eastern Syria.
This was just confirmed,
confirmed by the U.S.
Department of Defense.
This happened
in response to attacks
carried out by Iranian proxies
in the region against U.S.
personnel in Iraq and Syria.
We have watched over
the last several weeks
as Iranian proxies
have ramped up their attacks on U.S.
personnel and bases in Iraq and Syria.
Since October 17, 40 times,
those bases have been attacked
by those Iranian proxies,
leaving multiple U.S.
service members
with traumatic brain injuries
and other injuries
that the military characterize as minor.
But this is just an ongoing saga
in the potential
for a greater escalation here
as Iran has employed its proxies
to attack not only Israel, but also U.S.
interests in the region.
Earlier today, in fact,
the Houthi rebels in Yemen,
who are also allied
with Iran, took down an unmanned U.S.
aerial drone,
which is another significant move
in this story as we watch to see
whether or not
this conflict
between Israel and Hamas
could potentially escalate
into a broader regional war,
which the U.S.
is very much trying to avoid.
Yes, certainly is,
But it's a very serious
development indeed.
We're also getting
and I
know you're doing a lot of reporting
on this,
a new look inside
Israel's ground offensive
that's ongoing in Gaza.
What are you learning?
That's right, Wolf.
We went into Gaza on Saturday
with the Israel Defense Forces and today
several other journalists,
including Reuters,
getting an opportunity to go inside.
These are very tightly controlled visits,
very limited
window, and military censors
do review footage.
But we are getting a picture
in this case of northern Gaza
and some of Israel's military operations.
This is all happening
as Israeli forces are moving now
into the heart of Gaza City,
according to Israel's
minister of defense.
For several days
now, we've been hearing that
they've been encircling Gaza City
and now they are saying that
they are firmly operating
within that city, a Hamas stronghold.
Of course,
it's very difficult for us
to independently verify
those accounts by the Israeli military.
But all of this is happening
as senior Israeli officials
are making very clear, Wolf, that
the tunnel system that remains below Gaza
remains a tremendous challenge
for Israeli forces.
And tonight,
the Israel Defense Forces confirming that
they have taken out 130 tunnel systems
since this war began.
But, of course, they acknowledge
that many, many more still remains.
Meanwhile, the humanitarian situation
in Gaza, Wolf, remains dire.
We are watching
as hospitals
are running out of medical supplies,
running out of fuels
to carry out their operations.
And the U.N.
secretary general is warning
that the way Israel is carrying out
its military operation,
saying that there is clearly something
wrong there Wolf.
Jeremy Diamond
reporting from Tel Aviv, Israel,
thank you very much.
I want to get some more
now on the crisis in Gaza
as countless Palestinians
flee the Israeli bombardment
in the northern Strip
for an uncertain future in the south.
CNN's Salma
Abdelaziz has a closer look at their
harrowing journey.
Taking only what they can carry.
Families are fleeing Gaza City.
They wave white flags
made of anything they can find.
And as the sounds of war
echo around them,
they signal yet again
that they are innocents.
And now we're supposed
to be in the safe area.
But you can hear the bombs behind us,
he says. All of our houses are gone.
Nothing is left.
How much more can
the Israeli military
has been calling for weeks
on all those living
in the northern part of the strip
to move southwards?
Most recently opening what it called
safe corridors
for limited windows of time.
Pushing thousands here
to Salahadin Street,
where evacuees describe
a harrowing journey.
So we saw along the road destruction
dead bodies
everywhere in the Israeli
tanks with demand to search the youth.
She says.
We saw one young man stripped naked.
We witnessed unbearable scenes.
The only way to reach the route
is by foot or by cart.
For those who can find room.
There was heavy shelling
on our neighborhood
and we were forced to flee.
We have to use these donkey carts
because there's no fuel, he says.
They cut everything off to force us
out of our homes.
Israeli
troops are now in the heart of Gaza City
as Israel's defense minister
apparently declared the entire city,
the whole of the Enclave's
largest population center
a legitimate target.
Azar Gaza is the biggest terror
stronghold that mankind has ever built.
This whole city is one
big terror base underground.
They have kilometers of tunnels
connecting to hospitals and schools.
The U.N.
calls this exodus forcible displacement
and accuses
Israel of the collective punishment
of some 2 million people.
And these
routes can be dangerous and deadly.
This was Salahadin Street
just a few weeks ago.
CNN geolocated and authenticated
these videos
showing the aftermath of explosions
that killed evacuees.
You can see luggage among the bodies.
And many fear
they will never be allowed
to return home.
Some here say
this is reminiscent of the Nakba,
the Arabic term
for the expulsion
of Palestinians
from their towns
during the founding of Israel.
We walked a very long way.
It felt like the Nakba of 2023, she says.
We walked by dead
people who were ripped to shreds.
Children were very tired
because there was no water.
People were dying
and there were elderly who couldn't walk.
And for those who do make it.
Bombardment and siege
await them in the south.
To what do I do?
There is no true escape.
Because ultimately I'm here.
Because I'm at the table.
And thanks to see it in Salma
Abdul Aziz for that report.